we have some breaking news coming in the
European Union has just called for an
immediate humanitarian pause in the
fighting in Gaza and for the
unconditional release of all hostages
being held by Hamas it's the first joint
EU demand for an end to the hostilities
in Gaza the European Union heads of
government said that safe and full
humanitarian access is essential in
order to provide life-saving assistance
to the civilian population inside the
Gaza
Strip all right let's go to Jack perck
now he is at that Summit in Brussels
Jack the EU calling for an immediate
humanitarian PS in Gaza leading to a
sustainable ceasefire that's a mouthful
there I mean it um came as a surprise or
wasn't it a
surprise it's not necessarily a surprise
we had been hearing from most of the EU
countries that this was going to be on
the cards but using the word ceas fire
has been politically difficult
especially a few months ago the idea of
calling on for any kind of ceasefire was
looking impossible but now what we've
seen is that the EU leaders have
progressively moved their position the
dial the needle on the dial has slowly
tick towards this call which is for
immediate human humanitarian pauses this
is to allow a allow Aid into Gaza with
the idea of this sustainable ceasefire
in the future the context to this as
well is that a cypriate plan that the
United States has now got behind in the
last few weeks uh to get Aid through a
humanitarian Aid Corridor that goes
through Cyprus means that European
assets are also now moving towards Gaza
and in order for those Aid assets to get
in there the EU is now looking at this
situation as some somewhere where they
need to be getting the aid in and to
start calling for the fighting to stop
and there's a lot going on at the summit
tonight we understand that a decision as
been taken on Bosnia herzo and its
application for joining the European
Union what do we
know yeah that's right there's loads
going on the what we've heard from the
European leaders is that the accession
talks so the official
negotiations will be opened at some time
in the future for Bosnia and Herzegovina
it's still a very complicated situation
they do have to enact some reforms
that's what's in the document but it is
a very symbolic gesture from the
European Union they want to make sure
that they're sort of galvanizing and
keeping the support for those Western
Balan countries for their progression
into the EU and there is this thorny
issue of using Frozen Russian assets to
boost Aid to Ukraine did anything happen
with
that not really uh that was the can that
was kicked much further down the road
the EU said essentially that the
discussions on this and the proposals
that have been put forward should be
continued to be looked at uh and that is
something that they could move forward
with that is the context for this is
that around 210 billion Euro odd of
Russian Financial assets are in EU
financial institutions acre interest and
the some EU leaders want them to be used
to support Ukraine but at the moment
this is just a discussion that will be
ongoing they haven't made a decision
yesterday yeah some decisions and some
kicking the can tonight at that Summit
Jack perck in brussells Jack as always
thank
you